---
title: "Some Theoretical Considerations Related To The Quantitative Evaluation Of The Physical Characteristics Of Reservoir Rock From Electrical Log Data"
aliases: ["W2030328974"]
year: 1950
authors: "M. R. J. Wyllie; Walter Rose"
venue: "Journal of Petroleum Technology"
doi: "10.2118/950105-g"
citations: 342
seed_topic: "Kozeny Carman hydraulic conductivity porosity"
hop: 0
tags: [paper, geotech]
---
# Some Theoretical Considerations Related To The Quantitative Evaluation Of The Physical Characteristics Of Reservoir Rock From Electrical Log Data

**M. R. J. Wyllie; Walter Rose** — *Journal of Petroleum Technology* (1950) · **342 citations** · [DOI](https://doi.org/10.2118/950105-g) · [open access](https://onepetro.org/JPT/article-pdf/2/04/105/2238914/spe-950105-g.pdf)

## Abstract
Introduction The use of electrical well logs for the quantitative determination of suchreservoir parameters as connate water saturation, formation permeability andconnate water salinity has recently been attracting the attention of a numberof workers. While the theory of the determination of connate water salinity from theself potential S.P. log has received rather detailed treatment, relativelylittle attention has been paid to the theoretical aspects involved in thequantitative interpretation of resistivity data. It is clear that if electricalwell logs can be used for the quantitative evaluation of physicalcharacteristics of reservoir rock, they will provide a valuable tool tosupplement cheaply information obtained by more laborious core analysis. Incertain cases it is conceivable that the coring program could be considerablycurtailed if the electric log could be relied upon to give reasonably accuratequantitative information. It is our object in this paper to examine the theoretical basis ofquantitative log interpretation as expressed in such well-established loggingconcepts as formation factor and cementation factor. It is also our object toinvestigate the physical aspects of the relationship which is presumed to existbetween resistivity index and brine saturation in reservoir rock. Inparticular, we will endeavor to draw attention to the fact that it is possibleto express these logging concepts in terms of capillary pressure-saturationrelationships, permeability and tortuosity parameters which we will consider inthis paper to be fundamentally indicative of rock texture. The probability ofbeing able to obtain from log recordings alone the data theoretically essentialto permit quantitative log interpretation will be examined, and considerationwill also be given to the problem of formulating simple semiempiricalrelationships for use in the field. Theoretical Considerations The concept of formation resistivity factor, or as it is now commonlycalled, formation factor, appears to have been introduced by G. E. Archie.Formation resistivity factor as defined by Archie is the resistivity of a rock100 per cent brine-saturated divided by the resistivity of the brine. Thisrelationship had previously been used by physical chemists and the concept is, for example, implicit in an early treatment by Fricke of the conductivity of aqueous slurries. T.P. 2852

## Concepts
Well logging, Formation evaluation, Petroleum engineering, Saturation (graph theory), Geology, Interpretation (philosophy), Electrical resistivity and conductivity, Soil science
